And there are 10,000 square meters each.
30,000 is just the sacks.
And now this is totally empty.
It will be from 2010 to 2030.
Now you say this is totally empty.
This is what level is this?
This is third level.
Third level.
So the third level is totally empty.
And these are about half.
And so up to... So if... Third level is empty.
Empty.
And here is a small room for cars, motor cars.
That's 210.
201.
210.
Sorry.
Watch it.
22040.
And then...
On the other side of the street, there is an empty room, and for the, from 30 to 3000, we will get, and this is another empty spot, and we will get it.
To the year 3000, or to the year what?
Sorry, sorry, 2-1-0-0.
Wow.
Nobody knows, but...
I thought I really had a story here.
So this is Reserv.
But you have made provisions for the next hundred years.
Yes, yes.
And you will see in Leipzig, when they built Leipzig in 1912, they had provisions up to, nearly up to the year 2000.
They had room enough because they didn't want to have outstations.
and to go print books far away, and therefore, of course, nobody knows what will be in 20 years.
Normally we say maybe that 10%, or perhaps more, will be electronic material.
But the number of books is still increasing.
Each year we get about 3% more than the year before.
The number of books and journals is still increasing.
How many titles a year would you say?
You get 550,000 titles per year.
250 or 5,000?
250.
In Frankfurt and in other 250
in Leipzig, but of course you should count them not twice, so it is, we got in Frankfurt, the total input is 250,000, in some exceptions you may say even 300,000, but the question is, for example, we collect letters of German immigrants, because we have a small collection
Deutsche Exil Literature from authors which were obliged to escape during the Nazi time and if you count those much in the years.
Now these are what kind of these are manuscripts?
They are manuscripts.
But it's only from even an author, Thomas Mann or anyone.
So we have a special collection.
If you count everything together you count up to up to 300,000 items per year.
Normally in Germany, books which were published by the publishers are about 66,000 per year.
And then there are books which were not published by publishers, another 66,000, and then there are dissertations and periodicals and so on.
So there are about 60,000 different periodicals.
We are still surprised that each year the number of printed titles are steadily growing.
Last year Klaus-Dieter Lehmann decided, with the help of our government board, to reduce the steadily growing number of printed materials.
that we no longer collect books if the new edition is totally the same as the old one.
For example, there are some cooking books.
You get the 25th edition, 26th edition, 22nd edition.
And we said, if there is no change, just a new edition, we don't collect it.
And so it was about 10%
So we gave it to the publishers, if there is no change, just a new edition, we don't like it.
And therefore, for the first time, the number of books was going a little down.
But if you would keep in mind that you have the same figures as before, it would be
It's just the unchanged editions we don't collect.
It has a special problem in the living room.
In the former time, if I had a pocket pocket and it was heavily used, I knew they would make a new edition.
in two years' time, so I get a new one.
And now if we are only one, it may be that some of those books are destroyed earlier.
Were there many collections destroyed during the war?
especially in the eastern part of Germany, in fact, when the Polonia and the Russians came, they took the collection to Russia and to Polonia, you know, the German tribe, said, please give us back our books, can we say, dear friends, you destroyed Russia, you destroyed Moscow, you destroyed, and what we should, please forget it, and there is still sort of
the question whether a book belongs to pathway is or whether it should be this is still an open question what kind of books do they take just wear books they take anything
And now as foreign books, I must be clear to say, it will offer you a Xerox or a microfilm.
If you wish to use it, you may use a microfilm.
If you are really interested, please, whether you go to Cambridge or to Oxford or to Krakow,
Maybe in this way it could work.
So, there were a lot of collections lost.
Yes, yes.
Either by bombing, or by... I actually didn't use anything, or nearly anything.
It was...
They lost quite a lot, because in the last years of the war, they brought for safe reasons, because they were afraid of bombing, but they wanted to the eastern part.
And I was skeptical.
It didn't have to do the building.
It wasn't just the collection.
You talk about an ironic situation.
The building was spared.
This is one of the reasons, because after the Second World War again, German libraries decided not to have one central library, because no library was strong enough, but to decentralize and say, please, Colonia is medicine, Hanover is technique.
So each of the major library got one or more disciplines and get some money from the German Research Society to try to
keep as a net, as complete as possible, but not to be like the Library of Congress, to get everything under one roof.
So, next list.
Well, this is great.
This is very good.
We're doing the price of things that I missed.
You see, I like it too.
It'll work, you see.
This book is really about book culture, it's about philosophy, how people feel about the work.
As for Peter Rafi, maybe, my private opinion is, for the time being, we have just 2%, 2%, which are non-printed electronic publications.
The rest is printed.
And this 2%,
Whether it is internet or CD-ROMs, it is rather small, but in each newspaper, each journal, you just read on internet.
So I think in our reading homes, now we have three reading homes, you will see it.
One reading home is for periodicals, one is for books, and one is for multimedia.
In the multimedia, we just have screens.
And I'm a little sneaky.
If you go in this multimedia, you see, for each screen, he's hugging.
Is what?
Hugging some boys.
And the last Gré de Tour, certainly one of my visitors.
There's no serious worker at all in this room.
How did you see it so quickly?
I said, no one has a pencil or a piece of paper.
She's just surfing, wasting my money.
Yesterday evening, Thursday evening I had a check and there were about a quarter of the pencil and the paper.
So I'm quite sure whether
the main task of a library is to be an internet cafe, or whether the main task of a library should be to facilitate the access to serious literature, and not only to serve.
Of course a library should offer such facilities too, but the question is balance.
If they spend too much money from the budget to such modern things, and I have enough money to subscribe some additional important series, it could be difficult with E-Rex and some of the job-guiders.
I have that.
If we ask for money for computers, we get it.
per screen, but it may ask for some money for subscription, and they say, sorry, and there's a small, the balance, it is not easy to see this balance.
As for our budget, maybe it is, you mentioned that, we have now, before the reunion, we have 30 million, and now we have 60 million, the market.
because Leipzig, we have 330 staff, they have 330 staff.
What's the total number of workers in the building?
The total number of workers in the building in Frankfurt is 330.
That's not much at all.
It's not much at all in your heart, but if we ask our names of finance, we say that you have another 330 in Leipzig.
So you should be fair.
count them together, then you have 660.
And this is because, they say before, the very union of Germany, they said, we are the free national army, and we get all your books, and you did it.
The catalytic, you announced it with those small stacks.
And now you have the double number, and the number of complications have increased.
Why the hell are you not happy?
So that the publishing industry was the force behind
establishing this library, right?
Yes.
And mainly as a repository for their own books.
Yes, yes.
In 1912, in the 1st, she said, we wish to have an archive for our own books, and for John one of the Austen ones.
And later on, there's a John...
And Payer said, we wish to join.
But when they started, it was a division of the publisher's union.
And so they went to Leipzig and went to Berlin.
And Berlin was Prussia, and Prussia was the king.
And they said, no, we want to be free.
And so they did it in Leipzig.
And then they made this commitment and said, each of our publishers will give one of these copies to Leipzig.
And they did it.
It really was of any law.
And after the first immigration in Germany, we were in the late 20s immigration.
Of course, the publishers lost the money too.
Then the state government came and said, please, we keep the responsibility.
And here in Frankfurt, in 1946, there was no federal republic of Germany.
But the publisher said,
sorry there is in Leipzig a nice building but we can't use it because the communists don't allow it therefore we wish for an interim period we always say for an interim period interim there in Frankfurt an interim till the reunion will come so the reunion was absolutely anticipated and the reunion was 40 years after nobody thought
that the new union will come, that they decided to get a new building in Frankfurt.
Anyway.
Anyway, because nobody, and when the new building was nearly ready, suddenly the reunion came, and the Minister of Finance says, what a month!
Now I have two nationalists!
So I was quite sure if we would go to the museum,
This day to Bonn, we at United, they would say, please go to that team.
For 40 years you were crying.
It is just an interim.
And now you go.
This really was planned as an interim.
It was an interim.
And therefore,
But this new library was no longer planned as an intern.
The old one... This one was not planned as an intern?
No.
This one was planned as an intern.
It was just so many... It was rather... It was only in this time.
And then we saw all the reunions will not come in the 18th century.
So when was this building approved?
This building was approved in 1900.
in 1978.
1978, this building here?
Then you need 10 years, up to 1988, to make plans.
In Germany they need nearly 10 years to make plans.
the first and then the reunion you will remember was in 1999 and then it was finally decided to build one nobody thought there would be a reunion because this is called the next hundred years nobody expected to have the reunion within the next hundred years and two years after we had the reunion at the first dig right here it was in 1992
And in 1997, it was formally open.
So the first day, it was, this was just a lesson.
So this came after the reunion, though.
Yeah.
The money came after the reunion.
So we saw what happened.
It was still under discussion, whether we need to.
And we said, look, imagine they have Scotland, at Wales, at London,
In Italy, they have no influence.
Why shall we not have two?
And our publishers said, yes, we are really clear that we have two because they didn't wish to destroy one of these libraries.
But Mr. Pines was unhappy.
But he was not strong.
So in Leipzig, well, they really have, that's rather preservation.
Yeah.
But nevertheless, you see Leipzig has a huge reading room.
They have more readers than in Frankfurt, because the other university libraries in the former DDR were rather poor, and therefore quite a lot of students of this region still use
So the universities didn't have their own books?
They were not enough to buy all Western German books.
And Leipzig got a free copy.
So Leipzig was in the only library, which is a complete set of German books.
And of course, it was very important for some scientists.
So Leipzig, we have here in Frankfurt just 20,000 students.
users per year, Leipzig has 40,000.
Wow.
20,000 here?
Here in Leipzig, 40,000.
Leipzig, we close our... A lot, maybe 20,000.
I would have thought more than that.
Yes, but we say, hmm, there's a huge universal slide.
It is not necessarily that each undergraduate uses our things.
And the last thing, perhaps it's important for you, starting September 1st this year,
quite new.
For the first time in my life, we charge the leaders.
The leaders were up, it was 2BP, now we charge either 30 DMK per year or 5 DMK per week.
French chargers are free.
Yeah.
The first who started to charge were the Dutch.
And we say, okay, we agree to charge as leaders, but only if we get the permission to use this money in addition to our official budget to hire some additional staffs, to increase the services.
So we get this money as an extra money to our own budget.
If you see, if you have 20,000 and this together is about 60,000,
If you count it together, even if you would say only half of them, that by account you have just one million money more, and so you could hire some additional staff, because we are surprised when you open the library.
We doubled the numbers of leaders because we have now about 350 seats, not too much, but it is more than doubled.
And now the number of leaders increased, but the number of stairs in the stacks was the same.
And they were all around.
In the old timing, we need just one hour
to get the book and now we are up to two hours because the number of readers have increased and the number of staff is still stable and therefore we say if we would hire with the help of this money some additional students we come down again to one hour our official statement
we will go down to 30 minutes to house now wait and see when you when you check out a book yeah can you put it on the shelf but you have to return at the end of the day yeah if you take the book uh i would say in the leading room we have a reference library in the living room about 50 60 thousand
the order from the stacks, in the evening you have to give it back, but not in the stacks, if they have a new church, so you can have it the next day.
It is that it.
And your private books, we have a piece where there's more shelves, you can lock it, and you're not obliged to bring them over each morning again.
But this is our problem, for the first time,
ask for fees.
The majority of the leaders agree.
If this money is used in addition to the service, I agree.
Because serving Denmark per year is just half a day mark per week.
It's not too much.
But somewhere of Holy Weekend.
The other problem, in our library you are
allowed to work if you are 18 years old.
But we don't like children which are three years or five years or six years because it's easy to use in public library, but we are in the public library, we are in national library.
But now some of our leaders, people who are coming, they say, boy or girl, take care.
And now our librarians, oh God, they're hugging on this
How do you call it?
And they are always afraid that it could fall down or break a crown or anything else.
So we don't know what to do with those little babies because we are not a babysitting company in the library.
But we have a solution.
There is an opposite paragraph.
use if you are 18 year old.
But there is still a problem in the entrance hall.
Some additional screens.
So if a mother is coming with a baby, then we use this screen in the entrance hall.
The baby is crying, or the dog is barking.
He may do it in the entrance hall, but he didn't wish to have the babies inside.
On the other hand,
He is afraid of course to say, I do it like babies, because you are cool.
Frankfurt is traditionally a book city, right?
This is a book city for hundreds of years.
Frankfurt and Leipzig, where since several hundred years, the most famous cities of books, the old book fairs, where they were in Frankfurt and in Leipzig, in 1630.
and 1700s, 1800s, 1900s there were famous book fairs in Frankfurt and so on.
It was always Leipzig and Frankfurt City of Pox, not Berlin or Munich, and therefore it was for historical reasons arrived.
It's a national idea in Leipzig and Frankfurt.
Now Leipzig also?
The Publishers Union has its headquarters in Frankfurt.
And that's downtown over there.
It's downtown.
What's that big building over there?
Bank.
All the banks.
All banks.
And this huge tower is that
Book Fair is the message now.
There are offices in the Venice Book Fair.
That's next week.
That's over there.
If you wish to go there, there is a bus to the six stops.
But you are saying over here, I think you are very big enough.
Well, because the hotels are overcharged.
I know, I tried to get it, I had to get it for six nights.
It is really difficult to get one.
Even the director, the president of the French Mission will come to see us and we had some problems to get a hotel.
Well, that's okay.
But perhaps next year or next year.
Yeah, I'll come with you.
But really, I wanted to see the facility and talk to you people about... Well, sorry.
But you'll take place.
The gentleman will give you some details on collections and the reason.
The one thing perhaps he will not tell you is, if I tell you, if this is our governing board,
In the governing board, there are 11, and then we have an advisory board.
In the advisory board, there are 12.
In the advisory board, we get the ideas.
And here in this, six of them, 50%, are publishers.
And here, five are publishers.
Four are from the ministers.
This is two times Minister of Internal Affairs, one Minister of Finance, very important, and one is Science and Technology.
And then is one City of Frankfurt, because that's where we are.
And one is Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, German Research Society.
These are only professional.
The rest are
Publishers and publishers.
Three are book publishers.
One is recording, music recording, and one is music scores.
So those are the three, and these are the ministers.
Who preserves the newspapers?
Do you do that here?
We do it.
But as for newspapers, the only exception, we just microfilm, we don't connect any newspaper in theological form, we microfilm, and because the binding and the dissipation, maybe
Leipzig, I think Leipzig got permission to have a selection of 10, which you may have, you know, which is wrong, but the majority is in microphone.
And the rest is, the newspapers are just in microphone.
And so the number of payers together is 60,000.
It's a steady increase of 3,000 per year.
What did it pass to build this facility?
What's the point?
Yeah, it's important.
When they started, 10 years ago, they said we need 260 million, but they just need 248.
So it was a little cheaper than expected.
Very reasonable.
The French Library was a billion francs, 1.8 million, I think.
And the British Library was like 800 million pounds.
But this was just the building.
The ground was another 24 for the government.
So it's 268, 272.
272 million.
That's not bad.
The figures are in this paper which I give you, but nevertheless you will.
Okay.
It's good to know.
Well, actually you came in much less than the British and the French.
Yes, but we must be clear.
The Christians, the French, they have books from the 17th century, the 18th century, the 19th century, they have books from abroad.
So if you compare the size, as a discipline, to the mission, so I think
We sometimes say we give just the core of the nucleus of the national library according to the definition of UNESCO, they say.
The national library is always a library which has a depot legal for its, and this we have, and which is preparing the national bibliography.
We do.
Sorry.
I was supposed to go to mines yesterday, but the plane didn't leave seven hours late, so forget it.
I didn't get to see it, so that's the way that happened.
Do you have the cards too?
I forgot them at home.
I have your letters.
If I have some additional ideas, I will send them to you.
What I'll do is I'll send you an email.
Have you ever been at the Inflaminate?
No.
Not yet.
Now where is that?
Once a year there is a meeting of all director generals and all specialists.
This year it was in Copenhagen.
It's always in August.
It was Copenhagen.
There were about 2500 librarians.
And next year it is in Amsterdam.
So if you wish to get additional information without traveling a lot,
you've got the majority in one place with some good papers and so on but only if you wish next year is amsterdam and in 1990s bangkok it's far away hot and really i was there when i was on a service a million years ago okay and then in 2000 is jerusalem but next year is something and so the last 25 years i had each villa so i got quite a lot of
How do you spell that?
International Federation of the Library Associations, IFLA.
Could you tell me who you are, please?
Well, I'm Bernard Stephan.
I'm the Director of Central Services and Archiving.
Central services means not only services to the users in the library, but also for the services which we deliver or which we offer to other libraries.
That means bibliographic services, research services, and all these things, document delivery and all.
what you can imagine a library can offer on services.
And how do you split it?
Do you have a card that I could have?
Yeah.
In the library.
So if you could just do it mentioning that you deal with actually the services that... Yeah.
Could you tell me, why don't we just start very generally about what you do, what your services involve?
Well, the services...
as I said, are divided in services for other libraries, which mean bibliographic services.
And in this case, we deliver to other libraries bibliographic records.
They can decide whether they want to have all our range of records, that means records of books within the book trade, without the book trade,
records of music or whatever you can imagine.
These records came out from the cataloging for the national bibliography.
And we have the feeling that a lot of German libraries, at least, use these records for cataloging.
just not to do the same work a second time so they use our records for cataloging in some cases only for help of cataloging so they use it as a copy or something like that and then they changed for their purposes our records but in
many cases, they use our records as they are in the original form, just to have the same records as they were given in the national bibliography.
In Germany, perhaps you know that there are a lot of regional library centers, library service centers,
And these regional library service centers hold our records as a mirror for their customers.
So if you go to the region of, or to the state of Bavaria, there is a Bavarian state library service center.
And in this service center you will find our records
in the same way you find it in our catalogs.
And the Bavarian libraries use their system just to add their signatures and to add the book numbers, shelf numbers, so they have their records
all the records together in one database.
Just taking hours for the German books and then add foreign records like US MARC records or whatever to the same database.
They changed these foreign formats from, for instance, US MARC to MAP.
which means German mark format.
And so they have all the records together in one database, but connected through the book numbers, shelf numbers, and signatures of the different libraries.
I see.
Your mandate is really to work strictly with German language material.
Right.
restricted to German language materials or foreign language materials which were published in Germany.
So if a book is published in English, for instance from the Springer Publishing House in Germany, we will collect it, of course.
So we have two things, German language and Germany-based publishers.
How about German books in translation, like Luther Grass in English?
We collect these things in Leipzig.
You know already that we are two houses.
So we collect these things, translations and books about Germany.
We collect these things only one time in Leipzig because they have the longer and older tradition in collecting these materials.
And we have to buy these materials, you know.
These are deposit materials.
They are not deposit materials.
We have to buy them, and it's very expensive.
So we buy only one copy that we can report about these books in our bibliography, that we know there are these books,
But it's not necessary to have these books in two copies in both stans, in both libraries, not only in Leipzig, but also in Frankfurt.
We collect them only in Leipzig.
Interesting.
In terms of the computerization of things, you aren't really involved in any kind of retrospective conversion of your collection.
We do these things.
We help other libraries to do these retrospective conversions with our data.
So we deliver our data from 1945 on in a machine readable form.
Though other libraries can use our data for retrospective conversion.
But we convert also, or we will convert,
also our catalog the older parts of the catalog in leipzig you perhaps know that leipzig starts his their collection in 1913 and 13 13 right okay and we will convert these catalogs in the next
I don't know, perhaps five or six years to make them available in a machine readable form.
And at the moment we look for in system how we can do that in a way cheap but sufficient way.
That's always the problem.
And because
these catalog cards we have in Leipzig are way, way different.
So you will find handwritten cards, you will find machine-typed cards, but in a very old typing manner.
And you find also
modern cards, of course, but it's very difficult to read them.
So we can't use scanning.
It's difficult.
It's really, really difficult to do this with scanning.
There is now, I think, one possibility they have used it already in Zurich for the central libraries.
And this might be a possibility to convert our data in Leipzig.
But it's also very difficult to give these cards just for typing it again to people in South Asia or somewhere, or China.
They can't read it, the handwritten things.
These are handwritten things?
Yeah.
Well, that's the problem.
I can see that.
This is really a problem.
I didn't realize it was handwritten.
It's partly handwritten.
It's partly machine-typed, but machine-typed in different formats.
Yeah, with typefaces.
You can really, to scan things, it should be an electric typewriter.
Right, yeah.
But there are annotations, handwritten annotations.
That's impossible for... And you're probably talking about millions of cards too, right?
Right.
It must be around two million.
Two million.
Two million of cards.
Wow.
So you keep cards, right?
You still have a card... Not here, but in Leipzig, yes.
You will see it too many in Leipzig, I'm sure.
So everything here is online then?
We are totally online.
We don't have any cards.
except in a hidden part in the cellar somewhere there is still a card catalog.
Yeah, but is it maintained?
No.
So what's the cutoff date on that?
Yeah, it's cutoff after 1989, I think.
So did you have the same kind of controversy here that we've had in the States with the discontinuation of card catalogs?
Oh, right.
We have it.
Of course.
They always want to keep their old things just to work in and make... It's palpable, it's real, it's tactile.
How do you feel about that?
Well, I think our online catalog is very good and very sufficient, and it's not necessary to keep the card catalog.
But how about on a day like today when the computers are down, though?
That's the problem.
I'm sorry, I walked into it, but it's too good to overlook.
We don't know what to do.
So what we now try to do is to install stand-alone computers with CD-ROM.
Yeah, that we can use our CD-ROM as a catalog.
But, well, the CD-ROM is always two months late, up to two months late.
So that's right, we produce it outside.
Yeah, we produce it six times a year.
So what you just hope is
But there's always a give and a take, isn't there?
You have to give up.
But it does show you how much we are slaves to our technology, don't you think?
Yeah, that's right.
So, well, it's a funny thing to come this morning to the library and say, I have the first sentence.
No, it's wonderful.
I'm a writer.
I love dramatic scenes.
Believe me, I love your facility here.
Well, it's wonderful.
The new library is really wonderful.
I think everybody from the staff loves it very much.
And also our users love it very much.
Have you seen the new French library?
Yeah, and of course the British library.
I've been to both myself.
they are fantastic buildings but if you see that they need 400 people more only for guarding the building that's horrible in in in paris this is it's really horrible and my life i i think it's it's not a way in
Well, the French in particular.
I don't think the British has that.
Do you think the British has that?
No, not the British, but the French.
The French, of course, is an architectural statement that has nothing to do with books, I don't think.
I mean, the books were incidental in the equation, it seems to me.
It's very difficult to get a book.
You know all the different controls between, and you have to have
a card for this reading room, then you need a second card for an elaborated reading room, and all these things.
This, I think, is really horrible and not very democratic.
I mean, it's just those towers going up like they did when they really should have been going down, like everybody else.
Of course, when you went into the river down there, too.
Of course, yeah.
It's not possible in this side, but... But like you said, they have, what, 400 people there for security?
Yeah.
And that's more than the whole total workforce here.
Right.
They have now, I think, two and a half, 2.300,000 people stuck in both buildings, in the new one and in... How many now?
2,300.
I think that's about right, too.
Chris, they do more.
Their mission is more comprehensive than yours.
Of course.
how many stuffs they need for the reading rooms.
They have more places, of course, in the reading rooms.
The approach of the whole thing is totally different from ours, I see.
Well, I wonder if they consulted librarians when they built that building.
They said they have, but I'm not sure.
Well, yeah, because they had their Dominique Carroll was 36 years old.
I mean, he was building a... They tell you it was a cultural statement.
It was a statement that... I think the architect was not Carroll, but at least the president.
Dominique Carroll, he loved it.
Yeah.
He loved this.
That's right, yeah.
Of course, the French loves to have great symbols.
But I talked to this woman, Jacqueline Sanson, and I said, well, what do you think about this?
She said, you know, what I think is irrelevant.
This is what I've been given to work with, and I make the best of it.
And I thought that was a very...
honest dancer.
She's not going to tell me what she thinks, but she's not going to tell me it's great either.
She just says, look, this is what they gave me, and this is what I'm going to wear.
And they are not very happy with their offices, too.
They are really... I mean, I was in the offices of senior people, and maybe one-third the size of this particular office.
And you've got a beautiful corner here, a nice... But I have to say my office is
Especially very beautiful.
I think it's very beautiful.
Of course, Mr. Lehmanns or Mr. Nowak.
They are wonderful.
They are really wonderful.
Well, but I think the duties are different between the French National Library and the British National Library and our National Library.
Maybe you could distinguish the three, in your view.
Well, the others, they have a wide duty to collect all materials from all over the world.
They will collect everything, I think, if they have enough money for that.
The Grinch in particular.
Yeah.
Well, they don't have the money at the moment.
And...
Well, I think these two libraries are part of a still relevant, I think, colonial approach.
Well, we are not longer, let's say in another way, we don't longer have
colonies around the world, but we want to know what is happening there all around.
And we can do this by collecting books from all over the world.
Well, the Americans have the also... Library of Congress does the same thing.
Yeah, and they have field offices all around there.
Library of Congress actually has people all over the world buying books.
And also, when you think of the British Library, English is the official language.
I think it's 75 countries.
Think about that.
But more people are speaking Spanish than English.
Is that right?
Yeah.
Spanish is the most spoken language in the world, except of Chinese.
That surprises me.
Yeah.
Because there are a lot of Spanish-speaking people in the world.
Very interesting.
And then to get to your mandate, you mentioned to distinguish the French and the British.
Well, we just restricted our legal duties to German publications, or publications in German, and publications from out Germany.
That means we collect
all these things from Austria and Switzerland, Switzerland in German, or Italy, for instance, in German, and also from German colonies, I can say, in South America.
Of course, Argentina is one of the examples.
Also German books from Kazakhstan, for instance.
We collect these things, but in German or about Germany.
And we collect all the things which appear in Germany.
That means if there is a book appearing in Swahili, but from a German publisher, we will collect these things.
I see.
So, what are the numbers of books you have?
They're like six million?
We have here in Frankfurt around seven million.
Seven million.
And in Leipzig around eight million.
That's a lot.
Yeah, that's different because they collect since 1913.
And there is no replication.
Right.
In the last 40 years, 50 years, there was a little bit different application of these things.
But the more interesting number is that we have at the moment around 300,000 new titles in our bibliography.
Wow.
Around...
80,000 titles from all the book trade publishers and such things.
Around 10,000 electronic publications.
What, each year now?
Each year.
You had this.
Yeah.
So, in total, we come to a number of around 300,000 new records a year.
No, we're not talking.
Strictly about books, we're talking periodicals, journals, newspapers, any matter of thing, right?
Electronic publications.
Right.
Do you deal with maintaining the particular item, for instance?
Yes, partly, but our center for maintaining these for conservation and preservation is Leipzig.
Okay.
But in terms of an electronic publication?
This is here.
This center is here in France.
I hope I get to see something like that today during this visit.
Well, you can't see very much at the moment because our system also is dealing with our multimedia access system.
But the idea is that we...
Well, in the stacks, of course, we have electronic publications, hand-hold things, that means CD-ROMs or tapes or something like that.
But the idea is to give access to these publications through our multimedia access system.
in which we have at the moment around 130 CD-ROMs already installed for using in-house and we will have around 2000 CD-ROMs prepared for access in a jukebox system.
They are
pre-installed, though that a user can use them directly from our PCs in the multimedia reading room.
But this is future thinking at the moment.
How do you ensure that a piece of work that originates strictly through electronic means, not on CD-ROM, but that is really just stored through computer?
Yeah, you mean online publications.
How do you make sure that you're going to... What assurances are there that you will be able to maintain a permanent record?
Well, this is... I'm going to put this on the other side.